this peashooter might be low-tech but
it's the perfect tool to recreate a high
speed target for our dragonfly it fires
out seeds so quickly our eyes can't
possibly see them but is the dragonflies
vision quick enough to spot it we're
going to have a look back at our slow
motion clip will the dragonfly detect
the tiny p.a dragonflies completely
still and the head definitely turns
before we see the seed come into frame
and then the dragonfly almost takes off
but it has enough time to assess that
it's not a fly and it changes its mind
and stays on its perch
that's incredible the head definitely
Moo's thirst the dragon flies vision is
so quick it contract the flying object
and work out it's not prey all in less
than five hundredths of a second it's
partly due to the speed at which they
process information
dragon flies experience time in a
completely different way to us they have
a reaction time of 30 milliseconds far
faster than ours the whole process of
seeing a fly taking off and catching it
can happen in about the same time it
would simply take us to react in any way
but there's something even more
astonishing about the dragonfly's vision
to demonstrate patrick has a Flickr book
if I flip this book fast enough the
images begin to animate and that's
because the pages are moving so fast we
hardly notice them turning it's
essentially an optical illusion although
her vision appears to be seamless our
eyes actually work by capturing up to 60
images a second our brain then combines
them to create the illusion of a
continuous moving image because the
pages are turning faster than that it
brings the animation to life so a
dragonfly however this would look
completely different the images would
appear slowed down and it would see each
individual page turning and that's
because dragonflies see faster than we
do whereas we see 60 images per second
they see around 200 and so they can
observe things that are just too fast
for even us to process in real time it's
impossible for us to see exactly what
this dragonfly is doing
but using our high-speed camera that
slows down the action 80 times we're
able to reveal the astonishing accuracy
of a dragonflies vision as it catches a
tiny midge in midair dragonflies have
been around for 300 million years since
before the dinosaurs in this time they
fine-tuned their eyes to see their world
in slow motion
you